[WIP] Paging progress (#4470)
microsoft/typespec: docs/standard-library/pagination.md

---
title: Pagination
---

# Pagination

TypeSpec provide built-in support for some of the common pagination pattern used.

Pagination can be categorized into two types:

- Client driven pagination: In this pattern, the client is responsible for managing the pagination state(figuring out the next page, previous page, etc).
- Server driven pagination: In this pattern the server gives the client information on how to navigate to the next, previous, first, last page, etc.

## Basics

To enable pagination for an operation the first step is to decorate it with the `@list` decorator and have the return type contain a property decorated with `@pageItems`

```tsp
@list op listPets(): {
  @pageItems pets: Pet[];
};
```

## Client driven pagination

> For client driven pagination there is 3 decorator that can be used to annotate the operation parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For client driven pagination there are 3 decorators that can be used to annotate the operation parameters.
```
